men entering the building stay in your
office lock yourself in with Max Payne 3
rockstar has set out to reimagine the
gunplay mechanics of a third-person
action shooter
by finding a way to implement the
precision targeting of a first-person
game
and redesigning weapons and tactical
movement systems to make the gameplay as
immersive and cinematic as Max's dark
story
to solve the challenge of a third-person
game that combines a constant visible
lead character with consistently fluid
movements and controlled precision
gunplay each mechanic was painstakingly
designed into
max's movements respond naturally as you
play and the player is always in control
when aiming a weapon at the fullest
reach of any angle of motion max
repositions his upper body and torso
towards the target while still moving in
any intended direction to create a
unique sense of believability while
always maintaining fluid control of the
action
max's trademark dual-wield is back carry
identical smgs pistols or vary your
loadout and use for example a sawed-off
shotgun in one hand and a pistol in the
other some combinations provide a
devastating amount of firepower the
animation system compensates for the
weight and recoil of each weapon even
going so far as to shift Max's balance
as he carries a long-arm weapon while
shooting a pistol with his other hand in
firefights a heavy weapon will take
longer to swing around than a pistol a
factor when every second is crucial max
can carry a two-handed weapon like an
assault rifle and holster two pistols
giving the player countless combinations
to handle all situations
at the core of the game's design is an
animation system that gives the player
freedom when engaging enemies while
prone max can roll and shoot 360 degrees
with the same sense of accuracy as
during run and gun gameplay firefights
are intense at normal speed and bullet
tough but the intuitive cover system
offers a quick respite from the action
allowing players to plan a new line of
attack however enemies will use flanking
and charge tactics to force max out of
hiding these evolutions in shooting
mechanics and animation design along
with Max's signature bullet time bring
both an enormous amount of player choice
and control to the action and a new
level of cinematic realism to Max Payne
we got to get out of here now rockstars
gold with Max Payne 3 was to use
technical design innovations to create
an immersive and story-driven action
shooter in which there is an intensely
cinematic quality to gameplay as well as
cutscenes we're going to make this easy
floors are they over this video series
we will look in detail into aspects of
this approach to game design including
targeting and shooting movement and
animation bullet time and artificial
intelligence to create as accurate
responsive and realistic third-person
shooter as possible max payne threes
targeting and shooting mechanics have
been finely tuned the game combines the
precision of a first-person shooter with
a connection to the character you get
from 3rd person games
this core gunplay is based around tight
control of the reticle maintaining full
responsiveness without sacrificing
realistic character movement the
animations powering Max Payne all work
together so max can twist and turn
fluidly and realistically ensuring the
target is always in Max's sights this
allows for 360 degree shooting even from
a prone position max payne 3 cinematic
presentation uses extremely detailed
animation system Max's fluid and
realistic movement is the result of
thousands of separate animations that
dynamically combine along with
procedurally generated physics
animations to create a character that is
completely grounded in the physics of
the world around him
bullet time has always been the core
strategic and aesthetic gameplay element
for the max payne series
gunplay has to be both hectic enough for
the use of bullet time to make sense and
beautiful at any speed the game is
engineered around the many ways in which
bullet time is utilized every single
bullet is physically modeled in real
time final killcams use bullet time and
dramatic camera angles to show off final
death each one is unique responding to
your choice of weapon the point of
impact and a real-time natural motion
euphoria animation reaction the
technology behind enemy intelligence
varies depending on if they are
untrained street thugs abella gang
members or elite special forces there
are several thousand unique AI combat
animations covering a range of movements
from finding cover to reaction to
injuries all to ensure that no gunfight
feels the same enemies respond uniquely
to weapon hits depending on each weapons
force angle of hit
animation pose and environment around
them max payne 3 brings all these
advances together to create stylish and
precise gunplay in an incredibly
detailed and beautiful environment
combined with Max's noir ish narrative
it creates an intensely cinematic
non-stop action experience
you